README.adoc, before:

= Quarkus Kubernetes Sync
:experimental:
:github-repo-uri: https://github.com/redhat-developer-demos/quarkus-sync-demo

A demo to show how sync local https://quarkus.io[Quarkus] sources with pod running in kubernetes and use the `quarkus:dev` mode to hot reload the changes.

== Pre-requiste

This demo uses https://github.com/vapor-ware/ksync[ksync] to synchronize the local sources with remote.

== Running the demo

Clone the demo sources locally and lets call cloned folder as `$PROJECT_HOME`

[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/redhat-developer-demos/quarkus-sync-demo.git
----

[source,bash]
----
./start-minikube.sh
----

In a new terminal start the `ksync watch` to start monitoring changes to local folder.

[source,bash]
----
ksync watch &
----

Open a new terminal and navigate to `$PROJECT_HOME`, 

Deploy the demo application:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f src/main/k8s/app.yaml
----

The command creates the following resources:

- a kubernetes deployment called **quarkus-sync-demo**
- a kubernetes service called **quarkus-sync-demo**
- a persistence volume claim called `m2-cache` to cache the maven artifacts for faster builds

Check the stats of the application:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -w #<1>
----

<1> A successful start will have **quarkus-sync-demo** in **Running** status

[NOTE]
====
* You can terminate the `kubectl get pods -w` using the command kbd:[CTRL+C]
====

Once in the running status you can watch the log of the application using:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl logs -f <quarkus-pod-name>
----

During the initial run you will not see any Quarkus logs as the local and remote sources have not been synched. Tailing logs of pod will show message like `Waiting to synchronize project sources`

Create a ksync spec that starts the local to remote file synching:

[source,bash]
----
ksync create --name='quarkus-sync-demo' --local-read-only
 --selector=app=quarkus-sync-demo \
  `pwd` /project
----

Once you set up you sync spec, you should see the quarkus-sync-demo pod will start to run the Quarkus application in dev mode i.e. `mvn compile quarkus:dev` 

[IMPORTANT]
====
By default ksync is bi-directional, in order to avoid synch loop between local and remote, set the `--local-read-only`
====

You can check the status of the sync via 

[source,bash]
----
ksync get
----

Lets see the sync in action, open a new terminal and navigate to `$PROJECT_HOME`. Run the following command:

[source,bash]
----
./poll.sh #<1>
----
<1> this will keep calling the kubernetes service once in every 5 seconds 

Without any change you should be seeing response as `hello`

You can now make changes to the sources e.g change `hello` in link:{github-repo-uri}/blob/master/src/main/java/com/redhat/developers/GreetingResource.java[GreetingResource.java] to `namaste`

After few seconds you will see your polling window sending the new response `namaste`

Commit message:

(fix): add reload=false to avoid looping
The ksync has an open issue https://github.com/vapor-ware/ksync/issues/180 when restarting the container, in this case since quarkus will reload the app on change we can disable the reload to avoid looping

README.adoc, after:

= Quarkus Kubernetes Sync
:experimental:
:github-repo-uri: https://github.com/redhat-developer-demos/quarkus-sync-demo

A demo to show how sync local https://quarkus.io[Quarkus] sources with pod running in kubernetes and use the `quarkus:dev` mode to hot reload the changes.

== Pre-requiste

This demo uses https://github.com/vapor-ware/ksync[ksync] to synchronize the local sources with remote.

== Running the demo

Clone the demo sources locally and lets call cloned folder as `$PROJECT_HOME`

[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/redhat-developer-demos/quarkus-sync-demo.git
----

[source,bash]
----
./start-minikube.sh
----

In a new terminal start the `ksync watch` to start monitoring changes to local folder.

[source,bash]
----
ksync watch &
----

Open a new terminal and navigate to `$PROJECT_HOME`, 

Deploy the demo application:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f src/main/k8s/app.yaml
----

The command creates the following resources:

- a kubernetes deployment called **quarkus-sync-demo**
- a kubernetes service called **quarkus-sync-demo**
- a persistence volume claim called `m2-cache` to cache the maven artifacts for faster builds

Check the stats of the application:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -w #<1>
----

<1> A successful start will have **quarkus-sync-demo** in **Running** status

[NOTE]
====
* You can terminate the `kubectl get pods -w` using the command kbd:[CTRL+C]
====

Once in the running status you can watch the log of the application using:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl logs -f <quarkus-pod-name>
----

During the initial run you will not see any Quarkus logs as the local and remote sources have not been synched. Tailing logs of pod will show message like `Waiting to synchronize project sources`

Create a ksync spec that starts the local to remote file synching:

[source,bash]
----
ksync create --name='quarkus-sync-demo' 
  --local-read-only \#<1>
  --reload=false \#<2>
  --selector=app=quarkus-sync-demo \
  `pwd` /project
----

Once you set up you sync spec, you should see the quarkus-sync-demo pod will start to run the Quarkus application in dev mode i.e. `mvn compile quarkus:dev` 

[IMPORTANT]
====
<1> By default ksync is bi-directional, in order to avoid synch loop between local and remote, set the `--local-read-only`
<2> Since quarkus:dev mode will automatically recompile and reload, its not required to reload the container
====

You can check the status of the sync via 

[source,bash]
----
ksync get
----

Lets see the sync in action, open a new terminal and navigate to `$PROJECT_HOME`. Run the following command:

[source,bash]
----
./poll.sh #<1>
----
<1> this will keep calling the kubernetes service once in every 5 seconds 

Without any change you should be seeing response as `hello`

You can now make changes to the sources e.g change `hello` in link:{github-repo-uri}/blob/master/src/main/java/com/redhat/developers/GreetingResource.java[GreetingResource.java] to `namaste`

After few seconds you will see your polling window sending the new response `namaste`
